---
sidebar_position: 8
---

# AMD R600 Graphics Card Usage Guide

## Prerequisites

The GNOME Desktop firmware package is required.

## Modify Environment Variables

Comment out the `MESA_LOADER_DRIVER_OVERRIDE` environment variable used to specify the Mesa graphics driver to load.The original configuration `MESA_LOADER_DRIVER_OVERRIDE=pvr` tells Mesa to load the internal pvr graphics driver. When using an R600 graphics card, this needs to be commented out, as Mesa will automatically load the R600 driver.

If you need to use another type of graphics card, you may need to change this environment variable to the corresponding model. However, currently, gnome desktop is not adapted for other graphics card models, and they might not work properly.
```shell
sudo vim /etc/environment
```
Modify the content as follows:
```shell
PATH="/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games:/usr/local/games:/snap/bin"
COGL_DRIVER=gles2
GDK_GL=gles
XWAYLAND_NO_GLAMOR=1
SDL_VIDEODRIVER=wayland
#MESA_LOADER_DRIVER_OVERRIDE=pvr
```
## Install the Linux Firmware Package

linux-firmware is a package that contains the firmware required by the Linux operating system, including the firmware files for the R600 graphics card. Running the command below will download the R600 firmware files to the `/lib/firmware/radeon/ directory`. The firmware is loaded when the kernel starts.
```shell
sudo apt install linux-firmware
```

## Poweroff

To make the environment variable configuration take effect and ensure that the Linux kernel can load the newly installed R600 firmware, a system restart is required.
```shell
sudo poweroff
```
Connect the R600 graphics card to the PCIe interface, then power on to start using the R600 graphics card.